pf/05-28-2024-Chop-Shop's-Recipe-Drop.md, before:

# Introduction to Software Engineering
*Recipe Drop* is my semester project for CEN3031 - Introduction to Software Engineering. I worked as the project manager of a team of four, including myself. For this project we were tasked with designing and implementing an online recipe book. We named ourselves the Chop Shop, and set out to make our Recipe Drop, the next-up recipe book! The codebase is available [here](https://www.github.com/cen3031-chop-shop/recipe-drop).

## Duties
Throughout this project I oversaw administration of the project alongside Samuel Morse, our Scrum Master. I organized team meetings and Agile activities, conducted peer programming sessions, and I ensured both the depth and quality of our documentation.

We composed and delivered live project presentations on Zoom at regular intervals, including a pitch, update presentations, and a final presentation. We did daily scrum activities, sprint retrospectives, reviewed each other's work, and each of us participated in design and development. Our final documentation is available [here](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Ohscthi8u2Ukv7uq9eaidySqs9uQD7sM/view?usp=sharing).

## Implementation
As this was my first time working on a whole, contained piece of software, development was difficult. Fortunately Samuel knew how to get it set up, and the rest of us learned as we went. We organized a structure for our database, did some basic mock-ups for how we wanted it to look and behave, and split up  responsibilities into designated tasks, organized into sprints. Our backlog is available [here](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1GG_aM7VuZzESk4znYJ6ezWk0144kTKVt/view?usp=sharing), with Jira used to track our progress.

Most of my duties were with documentation and team activities. However, I commented and reviewed the code extensively. I implemented features as well; I constructed the modal that stores recipe information, and improved the workflow for editing recipes. Actual development was not the focus of my work but I got my first taste of React, Node, and Tailwind through this project, laying the groundwork for future project stacks and workflows. 

## Reflection
This project was my first taste of proper team-based software engineering. I loved overseeing the project, as it gave me the opportunity to examine the strengths of different team members, determine the best ways to work together, and how to split project responsibilities. I employed effective communication strategies, felt the pressure of team-based development under a deadline, and learned the importance of user experience design in the context of programming.

*Keywords: software engineering, web-app development, peer programming, full-stack development, project management, Git, GitHub, Agile methods, Scrum, Jira, user stories, story mapping, backlogging, scope creep, Next.JS, React, TailwindCSS, SEO, responsive design, Vercel, nHost, real-time database operations, secure API interactions*

Commit message:

Enhance Recipe Drop documentation with project tasks, architecture illustrations, and updated links

pf/05-28-2024-Chop-Shop's-Recipe-Drop.md, after:

# Introduction to Software Engineering
*Recipe Drop* is my semester project for CEN3031 - Introduction to Software Engineering. I worked as the project manager of a team of four, including myself. For this project we were tasked with designing and implementing an online recipe book. We named ourselves the Chop Shop, and set out to make our Recipe Drop, the next-up recipe book! Our [codebase](https://www.github.com/cen3031-chop-shop/recipe-drop) was hosted on GitHub, as this was the best version control for our use case.

## Project Tasks
For most students, this was the first foray into actual software development beyond a single program. Successful implementation was *not* the core of the grade, rather, we were almost entirely graded on documentation, following the agile process, and completing presentations. 

We were presented with a challenge statement, then tasked with composing an actionable solution and pitch. We had to discuss features and functionality that would comprise the solution, and designed system models to illustrate our architecture. 

![Architectural Pattern](images/pf/architectural-pattern.png)
*An illustration we composed of our system architecture.*

We chose a monolithic architecture due to our web-app's small size, a client-server pattern to provide users with personalized data stored in the cloud, and a relational database for the clear relationships between users and their recipes.

![System Context Model](images/pf/system-context-model.png)
*Detailed system context model visualizing relationships between our software's components.*

![Use Case Model](images/pf/use-case-model.png)
*The range of uses for Recipe Drop.*

To read more about *Recipe Drop*'s architecture and design, here is our [final documentation](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Ohscthi8u2Ukv7uq9eaidySqs9uQD7sM/view?usp=sharing).

## Duties
Throughout this project I oversaw administration of the project alongside Samuel Morse, our Scrum Master. I organized team meetings and Agile activities, conducted peer programming sessions, and I ensured both the depth and quality of our documentation.

We composed and delivered live project presentations on Zoom at regular intervals, including a pitch, update presentations, and a final presentation. We did daily scrum activities, sprint retrospectives, reviewed each other's work, and each of us participated in design and development. 
## Implementation
As this was my first time working on a whole, contained piece of software, development was difficult. Fortunately Samuel knew how to get it set up, and the rest of us learned as we went. We organized a structure for our database, did some basic mock-ups for how we wanted it to look and behave, and split up  responsibilities into designated tasks, organized into sprints. Our backlog is available [here](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1GG_aM7VuZzESk4znYJ6ezWk0144kTKVt/view?usp=sharing), with Jira used to track our progress.

Most of my duties were with documentation and team activities. However, I commented and reviewed the code extensively. I implemented features as well; I constructed the modal that stores recipe information, and improved the workflow for editing recipes. Actual development was not the focus of my work but I got my first taste of React, Node, and Tailwind through this project, laying the groundwork for future project stacks and workflows. 

## Reflection
This project was my first taste of proper team-based software engineering. I loved overseeing the project, as it gave me the opportunity to examine the strengths of different team members, determine the best ways to work together, and how to split project responsibilities. I employed effective communication strategies, felt the pressure of team-based development under a deadline, and learned the importance of user experience design in the context of programming.

*Keywords: software engineering, web-app development, peer programming, full-stack development, project management, Git, GitHub, Agile methods, Scrum, Jira, user stories, story mapping, backlogging, scope creep, Next.JS, React, TailwindCSS, SEO, responsive design, Vercel, nHost, real-time database operations, secure API interactions*
