Backlog.md, before:

# Portfolio Backlog

## Decisions
- Need to decide if I want to have markdown folders _or_ if I want to have a naming scheme instead (this would potentially make it easier to display all the files as background cards)
    - Maybe I can place all markdown folders into a larger markdown folder? This way all the content will be grabbed for the cards but I can still have it organized

## Necessary Functionality
- [x] Spheres swell when hover
- [x] Show info on hover
- [x] Expand into _modal?_ when clicked
- [ ] Spheres can be customized for different modal content, either via attribute or hard-coded (using an attribute is ideal...)
- [ ] Modal holds information related to sphere customization
- [x] Markdown viewer library for modal
- [x] Grab content from respective folders

## Beautification
- [ ] Spheres have hover physics (Cannon)
- [ ] Spheres are attached to the center sphere with lines (either rigid or wavy)
- [ ] Modal open animation
- [ ] Push around the spheres with the mouse (not super far), but they gravitate back to their original spot

## Background Cards
- [ ] Create little background cards for every markdown file

Commit message:

Improved responsiveness on sphere animations

Backlog.md, after:

# Portfolio Backlog

## Decisions
- Need to decide if I want to have markdown folders _or_ if I want to have a naming scheme instead (this would potentially make it easier to display all the files as background cards)
    - Maybe I can place all markdown folders into a larger markdown folder? This way all the content will be grabbed for the cards but I can still have it organized

## Necessary Functionality
- [x] Spheres swell when hover
- [x] Show info on hover
- [x] Expand into _modal?_ when clicked
- [ ] Spheres can be customized for different modal content, either via attribute or hard-coded (using an attribute is ideal...)
- [ ] Modal holds information related to sphere customization
- [x] Markdown viewer library for modal
- [x] Grab content from respective folders

## Beautification
- [ ] Spheres have hover physics (Cannon)
- [ ] Spheres are attached to the center sphere with lines (either rigid or wavy)
- [ ] Modal open animation
- [ ] Push around the spheres with the mouse (not super far), but they gravitate back to their original spot
- [ ] Hide the scrollbar in modals or make the right-hand side still curved as intended
- [ ] More responsive sphere hover ease

## Background Cards
- [ ] Create little background cards for every markdown file
