activity/!08-20-2025-Summer-2025-Recap.md, before:

**TL;DR: Summer '25 was a whirlwind of experiences, lots of >3-hour drives, and struggling to keep up with my joy of learning and responsibility to my deadlines. I loved it. A lot. I'm so excited for what's coming next.**

> Fitting song & I <3 George Clanton. Give it a spin if you don't mind.
<iframe width="1340" height="754" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/jZoo706cBIU" title="Everything I Want" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

# I got everything I wanted... yay?
Basically what George is saying. Plans I had for the summer (and completed :D):

- :D started learning VR design/development
- :D met VR researchers and extended my network
- :D finished my fall VR class textbook & (most of) *The Design of Everyday Things*
- :D obtained Meta Quest 3 (and spent another >$100 for halo strap, knuckle straps, interface, etc)
- :D built skills and connections through an internship
- :D turned 21!!
- :D built a game
- :D completed a core class
- :D got accepted and placed in UF Integrated Product and Process Design (IPPD)

Let's get into it!

## VR Design and Development
Towards the end of this past spring semester I realized I could put my enthusiasm for virtual reality to work. I've been unsure of my path and what I want to pursue for some time now, and felt it was time to really set my sights on something. Inspired by the opportunity to take a class on VR design this coming fall, I reached out to the professor, got the syllabus and bought the textbook, and dipped my toes in the water of Unity XR. Really I jumped all the way in, but I won't see the bottom for a while.

### Starting small(ish)
Following a 3-ish-hour tutorial on YouTube for 7 hours, I took notes and built a story-driven VR game complete with several different common VR interaction patterns and techniques, environment and lighting, and style. It was thrilling!! I had so much fun and I'd gotten a taste of what is possible and how to approach it.
<iframe width="1344" height="756" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/Jx0D0TgqreI" title="Space Scraper Demo" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

### Eli reads a textbook for fun
I have *never* been as excited for a class as I am for CIS4930: Introduction to Virtual Reality with Dr. Alexandre Gomes de Siqueira. I bought the textbook for the class and I've highlighted all through it, added bookmark tabby guys, and built up so much momentum. I didn't look at the syllabus too close so that I could make myself read the entire textbook, since I wouldn't know what's actually going to be taught. That way I'd still have seen all the content, all the context, at least one time before the class starts and I can use the class as a creative outlet. I've also convinced two of my dearest friends to take this class with me - I didn't give them much of a choice but they're both going to do it :D!

![Highlighted Textbook](images/activity/08-20-2025/textbook.gif)
###### This is going to sit as a trophy on a bookshelf in my future office. Easily one of the coolest books I've read. 

### Personal projects and prospects
I also made some of my own stuff and wrote down plenty plenty more ideas elsewhere! Inspired by occultism and sinister rituals, I did some basic groundwork on some hand-tracking gestures and rituals, as well as some immersive interactions with fire and candles. Check it out somewhere below this post in *Designing My Inaugural VR Experience*. It was so much fun to develop - it helped me discover that I **LOVE** novel and unique interactions. I could spend all day thinking about amazing ways for users to interact with and within a world.

With the Quest 3 I got for my birthday (I love you so much, Nana <3) I can also begin prototyping a demo I had in mind that involves Quest 3's environment raycast, prop-ified controllers, and hand tracking - super exciting. If I pull this off, I'll feel like Reggie.

![Reggie :)](images/activity/08-20-2025/reggie.webp)
###### This is Reggie, the suit of armor in my living room sporting a wizard robe, adorned in Christmas lights and holding a warning given to **MY ROOMMATES AND I** for some kind of garbage can issue perpetrated by our neighbors. Reggie is awesome. 

On top of all this, I was introduced to Dr. Roshan Venkatakrishnan through my wonderful professor Andrew Maxim who taught my UXD class. Simultaneously inspired and intimidated I met Roshan (and his brother through email), and learned about the world of virtual reality research. It absolutely blew my mind. He and I had a fantastic conversation about what I'm interested in, where I could go, and what I could do, and I'm strongly considering an array of prospects... we will see what happens. Perhaps I will use this fall as an opportunity to conduct my own study surrounding VR interaction and presence.

I am very intimidated at the thought of more school for a field that may not come to fruition in the way I hope, and I'm just intimidated pursuing any of this at all. I saw a Reddit post describing the Quest 3 as "VR 1.0", and they couldn't have been more right. It's easy to say this retroactively, but as soon as I on put my Quest 3 for the first time, I knew it was exactly what I wanted from the Quest 2, five years ago.

Ugh, I'm scared. There's so much promise in this field, and I believe it! I really do. I believe VR is on the cusp of finding its way into essential entertainment modalities, let alone the practical and commercial applications. It's so close to blowing up. But then again, maybe not! Either way, I want to be one of the designers and engineers on the forefront of "making VR happen" and I want to show people that virtual reality can be exponential in opportunity. I want to design experiences and worlds that make people forget anything else exists.

## Academics
This summer I got A's in two classes: Information and Database Systems 1, and Introduction to Game Development.

I took no other classes!

### Databases
Not a terrible class by any stretch, but it was fascinating to take this alongside my internship (more on that later). Very much a valuable educational experience, as I had always wondered how large data storage systems work and what is going on behind the scenes of DBMS's and large relational data systems. Unfortunately many class examples were less than stellar and difficult to understand, but I made it through with far more knowledge than I had going in.

### Introduction to Game Development
Oooh boy. Okay.

I saw this class as an opportunity to work on my Unity and general game development skills in lieu of my internship replacing VR time (and because I didn't want to take anything else). I figured at the least, it would be an external requirement that I focus on game development *and* work in Unity. Perfect.

Inspired by Neal Stephenson's *Snow Crash*, I found lots and lots of assets online and created a "top-down" 2D pixel art horizontal scroller where the player can automatically attach a tether to the backs of cars on the freeway to be pulled along. I thought the idea was great at first, and grew to hate it as I went through the motions of development and iterative design. Towards the end, though, I had something pretty cool.

> I don't have a video here just yet because I haven't had time to comb through my assets and determine which ones need accreditation. I may be too worried, but I'm nervous about posting a video without having accounted for all that.

It was a very valuable experience to make a game design document (GDD), prototype levels, and do lots of scripting with the Unity 2D system. I know more about animations, lighting, and a great number of other things. Like keeping track of asset creators to credit them when they want to be credited. I forgot to do that, but to be fair I got them all from opengameart and similar services, and it was my first time doing it.

### IPPD
UF's Integrated Product and Process Design (IPPD) program requires students to apply for a two-semester program in which they are paired with UF partner companies to give students the opportunity to team up and solve real problems for the companies. I was extremely fortunate to be accepted (and that it fits into my schedule - my schedule is looking **rough**)! I am very excited to meet new collaborators and to see what problems are in store! It feels like an in-school internship. Depending on what I'm allowed to talk about, I will be reporting here with my accomplishments.

## Internship
I was also very fortunate this summer to secure an internship in Business Intelligence at Intertape Polymer Group (IPG), a major manufacturer of packing products, especially tape. As part of the BI team and working among a wonderful set of colleagues and superiors, I migrated essential data management and reporting from WebFOCUS to Microsoft Fabric and optimized Microsoft Fabric data pipeline architectures. Specifically, I had the following duties:
- design and implement semantic models in the Power BI service to integrate varied data sources
- rebuild and enhance legacy WebFOCUS reports using Power BI Report Builder and Power BI Desktop
- redesign and build complex dashboards from improved usability and performance in Power BI Desktop
- develop and refactor SQL procedures in SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS) for improved performance
- implement PySpark ETL processes for data transformation and promotion through production tiers

Afforded the opportunity to develop both hard and soft skills to serve me well in the future as I move through my career, this internship was a fantastic window into BI development and future opportunities I may pursue. I made some great connections, added value, and the entire team wanted nothing more than for me to learn. I am proud to have my time at IPG on my resume.

# What does it all mean? What comes next?
> "It's time for you to look inward and begin asking yourself the big questions. Who are you, and what do **you** want?"\
> -Iroh, Avatar: The Last Airbender

Iroh was spitting. I've had that sentiment for the better part of a year, and there are no easy answers. There's so much pressure in so many different directions, but I need to be honest with myself if I ever want to be happy with my answers to the fabled "big questions".

Business intelligence is fascinating. I didn't even know that a team could exist just for creating reports and data interaction patterns/mechanisms for everyone else in the company. There's SQL involved, Python, collaboration, lots and lots of meetings, and even UX. It feels like the perfect role for me, working just out of view to build essential infrastructure. I love that position of quiet importance, of being essential but not at the center. I would love to have learned more in my time there, but I literally took every opportunity I had to learn something new, try something hard, and be uncomfortable.

That said, BI is not a dream career, and that's okay.

Working in VR would be a dream come true. I love putting on my headset - it always feels like I'm jacking in to something amazing with how I have to reorganize my tiny bedroom, block out all light in the headset, buy all my QoL accessories, and pick a game to play for at least two straight hours (looking at you, In Death: Unchained). I love it. Of course, work will always be work, but I can't think of anything else I would rather do if I were forced to do it.

I have my doubts about my ability to be "employable" in VR by the time I graduate a little under a year from now... but it's not gonna stop me. This is what I want, and I don't see any sense in pulling teeth out to develop personal software projects and do leetcode and all this other stuff when I could be doing what I love. My resume has more than enough evidence for my work ethic and team compatibility - that can speak for itself and I'll do my own thing.

I want to do VR. I'm going after it, full speed, and not looking back.

![Hi!](images/activity/08-20-2025/selfie.webp)

Commit message:

update summer '25 post with magnosurf video and gdd embeds

activity/!08-20-2025-Summer-2025-Recap.md, after:

**TL;DR: Summer '25 was a whirlwind of experiences, lots of >3-hour drives, and struggling to keep up with my joy of learning and responsibility to my deadlines. I loved it. A lot. I'm so excited for what's coming next.**

> Fitting song & I <3 George Clanton. Give it a spin if you don't mind.
<iframe width="1340" height="754" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/jZoo706cBIU" title="Everything I Want" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

# I got everything I wanted... yay?
Basically what George is saying. Plans I had for the summer (and completed :D):

- :D started learning VR design/development
- :D met VR researchers and extended my network
- :D finished my fall VR class textbook & (most of) *The Design of Everyday Things*
- :D obtained Meta Quest 3 (and spent another >$100 for halo strap, knuckle straps, interface, etc)
- :D built skills and connections through an internship
- :D turned 21!!
- :D built a game
- :D completed a core class
- :D got accepted and placed in UF Integrated Product and Process Design (IPPD)

Let's get into it!

## VR Design and Development
Towards the end of this past spring semester I realized I could put my enthusiasm for virtual reality to work. I've been unsure of my path and what I want to pursue for some time now, and felt it was time to really set my sights on something. Inspired by the opportunity to take a class on VR design this coming fall, I reached out to the professor, got the syllabus and bought the textbook, and dipped my toes in the water of Unity XR. Really I jumped all the way in, but I won't see the bottom for a while.

### Starting small(ish)
Following a 3-ish-hour tutorial on YouTube for 7 hours, I took notes and built a story-driven VR game complete with several different common VR interaction patterns and techniques, environment and lighting, and style. It was thrilling!! I had so much fun and I'd gotten a taste of what is possible and how to approach it.
<iframe width="1344" height="756" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/Jx0D0TgqreI" title="Space Scraper Demo" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

### Eli reads a textbook for fun
I have *never* been as excited for a class as I am for CIS4930: Introduction to Virtual Reality with Dr. Alexandre Gomes de Siqueira. I bought the textbook for the class and I've highlighted all through it, added bookmark tabby guys, and built up so much momentum. I didn't look at the syllabus too close so that I could make myself read the entire textbook, since I wouldn't know what's actually going to be taught. That way I'd still have seen all the content, all the context, at least one time before the class starts and I can use the class as a creative outlet. I've also convinced two of my dearest friends to take this class with me - I didn't give them much of a choice but they're both going to do it :D!

![Highlighted Textbook](images/activity/08-20-2025/textbook.gif)
###### This is going to sit as a trophy on a bookshelf in my future office. Easily one of the coolest books I've read. 

### Personal projects and prospects
I also made some of my own stuff and wrote down plenty plenty more ideas elsewhere! Inspired by occultism and sinister rituals, I did some basic groundwork on some hand-tracking gestures and rituals, as well as some immersive interactions with fire and candles. Check it out somewhere below this post in *Designing My Inaugural VR Experience*. It was so much fun to develop - it helped me discover that I **LOVE** novel and unique interactions. I could spend all day thinking about amazing ways for users to interact with and within a world.

With the Quest 3 I got for my birthday (I love you so much, Nana <3) I can also begin prototyping a demo I had in mind that involves Quest 3's environment raycast, prop-ified controllers, and hand tracking - super exciting. If I pull this off, I'll feel like Reggie.

![Reggie :)](images/activity/08-20-2025/reggie.webp)
###### This is Reggie, the suit of armor in my living room sporting a wizard robe, adorned in Christmas lights and holding a warning given to **MY ROOMMATES AND I** for some kind of garbage can issue perpetrated by our neighbors. Reggie is awesome. 

On top of all this, I was introduced to Dr. Roshan Venkatakrishnan through my wonderful professor Andrew Maxim who taught my UXD class. Simultaneously inspired and intimidated I met Roshan (and his brother through email), and learned about the world of virtual reality research. It absolutely blew my mind. He and I had a fantastic conversation about what I'm interested in, where I could go, and what I could do, and I'm strongly considering an array of prospects... we will see what happens. Perhaps I will use this fall as an opportunity to conduct my own study surrounding VR interaction and presence.

I am very intimidated at the thought of more school for a field that may not come to fruition in the way I hope, and I'm just intimidated pursuing any of this at all. I saw a Reddit post describing the Quest 3 as "VR 1.0", and they couldn't have been more right. It's easy to say this retroactively, but as soon as I on put my Quest 3 for the first time, I knew it was exactly what I wanted from the Quest 2, five years ago.

Ugh, I'm scared. There's so much promise in this field, and I believe it! I really do. I believe VR is on the cusp of finding its way into essential entertainment modalities, let alone the practical and commercial applications. It's so close to blowing up. But then again, maybe not! Either way, I want to be one of the designers and engineers on the forefront of "making VR happen" and I want to show people that virtual reality can be exponential in opportunity. I want to design experiences and worlds that make people forget anything else exists.

## Academics
This summer I got A's in two classes: Information and Database Systems 1, and Introduction to Game Development.

I took no other classes!

### Databases
Not a terrible class by any stretch, but it was fascinating to take this alongside my internship (more on that later). Very much a valuable educational experience, as I had always wondered how large data storage systems work and what is going on behind the scenes of DBMS's and large relational data systems. Unfortunately many class examples were less than stellar and difficult to understand, but I made it through with far more knowledge than I had going in.

### Introduction to Game Development
Oooh boy. Okay.

I saw this class as an opportunity to work on my Unity and general game development skills in lieu of my internship replacing VR time (and because I didn't want to take anything else). I figured at the least, it would be an external requirement that I focus on game development *and* work in Unity. Perfect.

Inspired by Neal Stephenson's *Snow Crash*, I found lots and lots of assets online and created a "top-down" 2D pixel art horizontal scroller where the player can automatically attach a tether to the backs of cars on the freeway to be pulled along. I thought the idea was great at first, and grew to hate it as I went through the motions of development and iterative design. Towards the end, though, I had something pretty cool.

<iframe width="1863" height="800" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/Z2RqhYEzGg0" title="Magnosurf Demo" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

It was a very valuable experience to make a game design document (GDD), prototype levels, and do lots of scripting with the Unity 2D system. I know more about animations, lighting, and a great number of other things. Like keeping track of asset creators to credit them when they want to be credited. I forgot to do that, but to be fair I got them all from opengameart and similar services, and it was my first time doing it.

Unfortunately the font won't show up how it's supposed to, but here's my GDD! Most of the document features inspiration and moodboarding, but it contains my preliminary ideas from which the game would eventually be built.

<iframe src="https://1drv.ms/w/c/6084949f0d1e5095/IQTswxiXKVWmRYW1hKGe1zJDAfc352t7c-IwLHO1HzRZGBs" width="476" height="288" frameborder="0" scrolling="no"></iframe>

### IPPD
UF's Integrated Product and Process Design (IPPD) program requires students to apply for a two-semester program in which they are paired with UF partner companies to give students the opportunity to team up and solve real problems for the companies. I was extremely fortunate to be accepted (and that it fits into my schedule - my schedule is looking **rough**)! I am very excited to meet new collaborators and to see what problems are in store! It feels like an in-school internship. Depending on what I'm allowed to talk about, I will be reporting here with my accomplishments.

## Internship
I was also very fortunate this summer to secure an internship in Business Intelligence at Intertape Polymer Group (IPG), a major manufacturer of packing products, especially tape. As part of the BI team and working among a wonderful set of colleagues and superiors, I migrated essential data management and reporting from WebFOCUS to Microsoft Fabric and optimized Microsoft Fabric data pipeline architectures. Specifically, I had the following duties:
- design and implement semantic models in the Power BI service to integrate varied data sources
- rebuild and enhance legacy WebFOCUS reports using Power BI Report Builder and Power BI Desktop
- redesign and build complex dashboards from improved usability and performance in Power BI Desktop
- develop and refactor SQL procedures in SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS) for improved performance
- implement PySpark ETL processes for data transformation and promotion through production tiers

Afforded the opportunity to develop both hard and soft skills to serve me well in the future as I move through my career, this internship was a fantastic window into BI development and future opportunities I may pursue. I made some great connections, added value, and the entire team wanted nothing more than for me to learn. I am proud to have my time at IPG on my resume.

# What does it all mean? What comes next?
> "It's time for you to look inward and begin asking yourself the big questions. Who are you, and what do **you** want?"\
> -Iroh, Avatar: The Last Airbender

Iroh was spitting. I've had that sentiment for the better part of a year, and there are no easy answers. There's so much pressure in so many different directions, but I need to be honest with myself if I ever want to be happy with my answers to the fabled "big questions".

Business intelligence is fascinating. I didn't even know that a team could exist just for creating reports and data interaction patterns/mechanisms for everyone else in the company. There's SQL involved, Python, collaboration, lots and lots of meetings, and even UX. It feels like the perfect role for me, working just out of view to build essential infrastructure. I love that position of quiet importance, of being essential but not at the center. I would love to have learned more in my time there, but I literally took every opportunity I had to learn something new, try something hard, and be uncomfortable.

That said, BI is not a dream career, and that's okay.

Working in VR would be a dream come true. I love putting on my headset - it always feels like I'm jacking in to something amazing with how I have to reorganize my tiny bedroom, block out all light in the headset, buy all my QoL accessories, and pick a game to play for at least two straight hours (looking at you, In Death: Unchained). I love it. Of course, work will always be work, but I can't think of anything else I would rather do if I were forced to do it.

I have my doubts about my ability to be "employable" in VR by the time I graduate a little under a year from now... but it's not gonna stop me. This is what I want, and I don't see any sense in pulling teeth out to develop personal software projects and do leetcode and all this other stuff when I could be doing what I love. My resume has more than enough evidence for my work ethic and team compatibility - that can speak for itself and I'll do my own thing.

I want to do VR. I'm going after it, full speed, and not looking back.

![Hi!](images/activity/08-20-2025/selfie.webp)
